in the late 1980s Manhattan's Lower East
Side was known as an easy place to score
drugs and sex prostitutes worked right
in the open
turning $20 tricks for a quick drug
bunny along certain streets known as
strolls the strollers where prostitutes
ply their trade where they've known to
congregate and the John's can find them
and do their business so get picked up
but one of those John's was after more
than cheap sex he was out for blood
tragedy happens in lives unfortunately
it was their lives the world wouldn't
know his name until after his killing
spree had ended now in a rare prison
interview serial killer Joel Rifkin
talks about his sickening crimes down to
the smallest detail I remember while I
was strangling the truck she had boots
on she was kicking the driver's side
door turn this whole thing over a
four-year period the sadistic killer
patronized hundreds of New York City
prostitutes he strangled 17 of them with
his bare hands why those 17 beats me he
discarded their bodies in remote areas
or dumped them into local rivers some he
dismembered cutting up a body
yeah it's grotesque and repugnant to
most people but it's at a level less
than the actual killing no one knew
about his cold-blooded killing spree not
the police not the press not the public
not even the prostitutes themselves
people in that environment almost go
virtually unreported and slip through
the cracks
22 year-old Tiffany bresciani was his
last victim she was just very happy and
beautiful and loved people Tiffany had
moved from Louisiana to New York to
become an actress or a dancer but
instead of finding Broadway's bright
lights the city's Dark Side got her
first to support a drug addiction
sheeter
to prostitution that still had that
heartache you know it never goes away
there's that empty feeling sometimes you
know without her in spite of her
troubles
Tiffany remained in close touch with her
mother but in June of 1993 she stopped
calling home she'd call about three
times a week you know we really kept in
touch that week that had happened that
said did she call yet and I had the most
awful feeling what happened - Tiffany
might never have been discovered if not
for trooper Sean Ruane of the New York
State Police Department early in the
morning of June 28th Ruane was
patrolling Long Island's Southern State
Parkway when a pickup truck caught his
attention I observed a Mazda pickup
truck with no license plate on the back
we decided to
pull the vehicle over instead the driver
took off but before long Ruane was going
nearly 100 miles per hour trying to keep
up with the truck as it sped through
Nassau County barreling through stop
signs and around corners the drivers
seemed willing to do anything to get
away the vehicle actually went up onto
two wheels and I thought it was going to
actually roll over lucky for him it
landed back on four wheels after a
frantic half-hour pursuit the drivers
luck ran out when he crashed into a
streetlight I ran up to the driver side
of his car opened the door he happened
to be sitting in the driver's seat with
his hands up like this basically giving
up very kind of casual actually as row
Wayne began inspecting the vehicle he
caught a whiff of something evil a
telltale odor almost every police
officer knows it appeared to be the odor
of decaying flesh in the back of the
pickup Ruane discovered a blue tarp and
the horrifying secret it concealed it
appeared as if someone was just rolled
up in like a blanket and upon pulling
back the tarp realized that there was a
deceased subject in the car who's never
expecting that the grisly find was
radioed back to headquarters
then the suspects identity was revealed
34 year-old Joel Rifkin remained oddly
calm at the scene
even while he and Ruane were sitting in
the patrol car waiting for homicide
investigators to arrive he actually
thanked me for turning on the
air-conditioning and said you know thank
you for for turning on the
air-conditioning because I know where
I'm going I'm not going to have that
Rifkin was taken to police headquarters
in East Farmingdale where detectives
began interrogating him from the start
he was cooperative he means that he
patronized prostitutes quite a bit and
that the the body in his trunk was a
process - in fact that he had patronized
and had strangled while having sex with
her
the victim was Tiffany bresciani Rifkin
told investigators he had picked her up
on Manhattan's Lower East Side know
someone I met in the city and things
that can go well after killing her he
drove her body to his mother's house and
stored it in the garage for three days
before trying to dispose of it pretty
unusual we never thought that somebody
could do something like that
we've we've been around decaying bodies
before and it's a pretty disgusting
smell and for him to drive around with
it it just was unbelievable that wasn't
the only unbelievable thing about Rifkin
the detectives were amazed at his icy
calm composure he was very cool
emotionally detached it appeared that he
wasn't concerned about this at all I had
a feeling that he had done this before
under questioning Rifkin filled in more
details about his life he worked as a
landscaper on Long Island but was
unemployed at the time he lived in his
childhood home with his mother and
sister but investigators since there was
more much more to Joel Rifkin story well
when I thought unusual is that here's a
fella that looks like he can
next-door neighbor and then go out at
night pick up a girl and Strangler kill
her and then dispose of the body almost
like it came like second nature
the detectives followed their hunch and
asked Rifkin if there were other victims
I figured you know it was there was no
point in being evasive I gave them mean
you know the whole thing
what Rifkin gave was more than anyone
imagined a confession that turned a
down-and-out landscaper from Long Island
into the worst serial killer in New York
State history at police headquarters
Joel Rifkin was playing a cat and mouse
game with detectives the 34 year-old
unemployed gardener just confessed to
the murder of Tiffany bresciani whose
body was found in the back of his truck
but investigators believed there was
more to the story seven hours into the
grilling Rifkin began to crack they were
wearing me down it was already getting
into afternoon I you know I'm tired he
didn't sleep the night before they're
very good at what they do you know how
to bring it to the edge and then take
her back and bring it back to the edge
again the detectives wanted to know how
many other women he had killed and he
decided to play a numbers game with me
and we asked him like how many have you
done 102 soul and he said no I did not
do it a hundred times and I came out
with more than one less than 20 and
going through different numbers he says
17 he gave us a number 17 even to such
seasoned homicide detectives the number
was a shock when that came out that
number came on those taken aback a
little bit he fed off of that I pinkie
fed over listen what I've done I've done
17 you guys are just catching me now he
offered to draw the sceptical detectives
a map showing where he had put two other
victims I think they were very surprised
finally just you know hand me a map
in a couple of pens and you know enjoy
your pictures so I did Rifkin's Matt led
police to a remote part of JFK Airport
where they found a skeleton beneath a
rotting mattress it was the remains of
25 year old iris sanchez whom Rifkin
murdered on Mother's Day in 1992 this
one happened incredibly fast this was of
all the all the girls the fastest the
other body was also where the map
indicated just off the highway in the
Hamptons
it belonged to 28 year old Lauren
Marquez a mother of two from Tennessee I
just basically leaned over her and I'm
grilling her we were able to recover
these two bodies that had not been
discovered before so that pretty much
put him in the realm of being believable
now with three confirmed bodies to his
deadly resume the detectives understood
who they had captured not just a
suspected murderer but a confessed
serial killer I sensed that he had no
remorse and I don't think he thought of
the victims as human beings I think he
thought of him is just as swatting a fly
on that June day in 1993 the
interrogation stretched on for 12 hours
as Rifkin described each of his 17
murders in gruesome detail his
recollection was very amazing you could
recall always them from 1989 he went
always in 1993 with each victim how he
killed them which ones he dismembered
how he disposed of them before the day
was out police executed a search warrant
at his childhood home his bedroom was a
mess filled with used dishes soiled
clothes and discarded magazines but
among the filth the detectives
discovered valuable evidence hundreds of
personal items from his victims we were
overwhelmed like how are we gonna go
through this and go through meticulously
we started to find identification and
jewelry and different things belonging
to girls are under
our clothing Rifkin had saved trophies
from each woman to help him remember the
murders as the numbers started to
increase and ID would you know okay that
has a photo I know I know who that girl
was a piece of jewelry okay I know that
it's from that girl so yeah it would
help keep the sequins and to remember
who was who and remember the events
those become very important to him many
times that's an aid in reliving the
fantasy detectives also found a
collection of research material on other
serial killers
we found newspaper articles chronicling
other serial killers other times if he
died Martha saw across different books
on the Green River Killer it almost
seemed like he was making a study of
these type of individuals fully knowing
what he was police hauled away hundreds
of pieces of evidence including a saw a
freezer and a wheel barrel containing a
quart of fresh blood to help unravel
this awful mystery they turned to his
mother and sister who Rifkin lived with
during his four-year killing spree that
was incredulous that she didn't know
that nobody could know that these things
were going on underneath their roof but
how well do we really know people we
live with as police confirmed each one
of his 17 victims a fuller picture began
to emerge Joel Rifkin wasn't just the
most prolific serial killer in New
York's history he was one of the worst
of all time eclipsing such infamous
killers as David Berkowitz the Son of
Sam Richard Ramirez The Night Stalker
and Albert DeSalvo the Boston Strangler
as soon as the news got out this case
took the life of its own after a life
spent hiding in the shadows suddenly the
whole world knew who Joel Rifkin was
this correctness
are you responsible 70 murders
mr. Rifkin has spoke of 17 homicides
that he committed on June 30th 1993 New
York state police called a press
conference to announce the arrest of
serial killer Joel Rifkin the operation
consisted of picking up the woman having
sex with him killing them and disposing
to them one question above all seemed
most important no we don't what could
have caused such a quiet unassuming man
to kill so many women mr. Rifkin seemed
like he could be your next door neighbor
but at nighttime he had a an extreme
thirst for using prostitutes and then he
went on the killing spree that made him
the most prolific serial killer in New
York State history no one would have
dreamed Rifkin was destined for such
infamy when he was adopted on
Valentine's Day 1959 by Ben and Jean
Rifkin by all accounts his early
childhood was filled with love and
support started out very loving very uh
you know typical my memory is mostly a
few years of home movies and a lot of
photographs as we got older though and
more of our personalities came out more
and more it became if all those little
disappointment Rifkin's father was a
standout athlete and math whiz in
college who had gone on to become a
successful engineer at Brookhaven
National Laboratory
he grew impatient with his son Joel who
had a high IQ of 128 but was plagued
with severe dyslexia and coordination
problems like every father he's very
excited about teaching me sports
he tried teaching me how to throw a
football which was his sport in high
school I couldn't catch the thing and he
just got after a year or two he got
extremely frustrated and that was that
no more football Rifkin also had trouble
connecting with children his age by the
time he entered school he was constantly
tormented by bullies often in front of
girls anybody who wanted to make your
reputation as
or you know one of the local hoods I was
one of the first guys they looked for
and it was rough at times to escape the
abuse Rifkin became cunning devising
strategies to avoid people I was one of
the last people in the building which
that was almost always late for class
and I was one of the last people to
leave the building
everybody's gone it's safe to go
isolated at school and at home Rifkin
retreated to his bedroom the one place
he felt safe there
behind closed doors his deviant ideas
came to life I develop if I'm that type
of person a fantasy life and I'm in my
room or in my private place with this
fantasy life when no one attacks me no
one makes fun of me I'm in charge I'm in
control of that and if that feels good
I'll continue that fantasy life I'll
elaborate on it Rifkin's fantasy life
began to overpower his hold on reality
after seeing the Alfred Hitchcock movie
frenzy as a teenager he developed a
sexual obsession with strangling women
I remember seeing Hitchcock's frenzied
chal ADA had a videotape of it used to
always get my attention that built in
the fantasy life Rifkin graduated from
high school in 1977 he stayed at home
taking a class at the local community
college one year later he enrolled at
the State University of New York at
Brockport 200 miles away before leaving
for his first semester Rifkin decided
that he might fit in better if he lost
his virginity
I figured well I should have at least
some experience it should kind of know
something of what this whole thing is
Rifkin headed into Manhattan and picked
up a prostitute machine ello is a kid
basically so
this particular woman was I would guess
in her 30s
she'd been around so she basically you
know played teacher Rifkin didn't just
learn about sex after years of feeling
rejected and humiliated by girls for
just $20 he could be the one in control
the feeling intoxicated him self-esteem
wise you know as long as you had that
the price of admission that was it it
wasn't a rejection it was no you know
you're weird you a nerd isn't none of
that but even with experience Rifkin was
still an outcast at college after two
years he gave up and moved back home his
father was furious tired of being
disappointed by his underachieving son
me and my father used to have these
horrendous screaming matches over little
nothing things and I was made to feel
like the worst kind of son of the planet
in 1986 Ben Rifkin was diagnosed with
terminal cancer hoping to impress his
father for once joel enrolled in a
biology class at a local university but
just before his midterm grades were
released Rifkin's dad committed suicide
by taking a cocktail of barbiturates
Rifkin was devastated especially since
he received a good grade today's day I
think he timed that cocktail knowing the
test was coming he didn't want to see
the failure
and I didn't get to chance to see to
show that it wasn't a failure after his
father's death Rifkin sought acceptance
the only place he knew he could find it
with prostitutes when he started a
landscaping business in 1989 almost
every dollar he earned went into his
obsession that was basically my drug of
choice whether it was the sexual
encounter or just hanging out with them
I knew what times I'd spent eight hours
just driving around in the city in
February 1989 two years to the week
after his father's death Rifkin finally
succumbed to his dark fantasies his
mother and sister had gone on vacation
and Joel decided to bring home a
prostitute she was uh using heroin
during that night she shot up in the
bathroom passed out for two hours we had
sex once and then she shot up again and
passed out again Rifkin who never used
drugs and rarely drank became irritated
with the woman's drug habit in the
morning still frustrated he grabbed a
howitzer shell that he had in the house
and began to hit her and I just remember
picking it up and the first blow hitter
of the eye in middle of forehead and by
the time I put it down I don't know at
least 20 to 30 times I struck her with
it
Rifkin thought she was dead but she
wasn't um
hopping around and she sits up and that
completely had me freaked out so we
ended up wrestling on the floor I got
bitten in the process I still had the
scar from that and probably smothered
him more than I strangled her and that
was the first murder
he dragged her body to the basement
minutes after committing his first
murder Rifkin went back to bed for hours
six hours and woke up realized that oh
yeah I did do it this time and then had
the problem of how do I get this large
item out of house Rifkin used an exacto
knife to cut her body into pieces and I
just decided to make the package smaller
it's easier to take it out little pieces
I've take it out one big piece so a
little hobby knife and a little effort
made six pieces out of her once I had
everything carved around I just popped
it with force to hip socket arm sockets
just popped
Rifkind drove around throwing her body
parts out of his car window along
various highways she has still never
been identified then Rifkin went home
and resumed his normal life I don't
remember any rage any anger just doing
it that's the odd thing about most of
these these murders and that I didn't
get intensely enraged they just took
place for the first time in his life
Joel Rifkin was finally good at
something he was good at murder
after the first murder Joel Rifkin was
terrified of getting caught
whoa I can't believe I did this and it
was driving down the block I'm counting
the cars yeah that car belongs in a
crumbling say yeah you know looking for
the odd car driving past the house
circling back you know oldest paranoia
stuff but he kept his dark secret to
himself and returned to his regular
routine of living at home mowing lawns
and seeing prostitutes he vowed never to
kill again I really threw out but that
whole time before the next one happened
was okay that's not gonna happen again
we're done with that that was just an
you know a bad day but he couldn't stop
thinking about the murder especially
during sex for a year and a half he was
able to hold off the urge then his
mother and sister went away again and he
brought home another prostitute her name
was Julia Blackbird there were other
girls in an interval also void brought
to the house and they were all still
around as far as I know uh so I don't
really know what the particular spark
was they spent the night at his home
then early the next morning drove to an
ATM to get money but Rifkin's checking
account was empty so they headed back
home I needed to wait for the bank to
open so they could manually check my
balance so we went back to the house and
we had to kill about an hour and a half
yeah good choice of words this time
Rifkin used a table leg I hit her
knocked her out in one blow and then
strangled her for about 20 minutes which
I was basically strangling my corpse
after a while Rifkin thought about
having sex with her dead body something
he had read about while researching
serial killers the thought occurred to
me because I had heard of it and I shook
off the thought and said no now I'm
making this dividing line in my head all
right
killed somebody but now I won't go any I
won't do this next thing I won't you
know which is I don't know it's odd but
the whole thing is odd everyone likes to
feel that they're a little bit above the
lower portions of society so I'm not as
low as a necrophiliac I'm just a serial
killer rifken dismembered her body in
the basement
this time he sealed the pieces in cement
and dumped them in the water
they went into various channels and
rivers along New York City to the best
of my knowledge they haven't found
anything
the second victim also hasn't been
located he kept some jury custom jewelry
from this victim now a killer for the
second time Rifkin became emboldened
just four months later he struck again
the third victim which we known as
Barbara Jacobs white female about thirty
two years old he picked up Barbara 212
Street and 2nd Avenue New York City like
the others he killed Barbara at his home
in East Meadow we had sex and they guest
bedroom and she went to sleep and I was
up and roaming the house debated with
myself if I really wanted to hurt her or
kill her and eventually that impulse was
too strong and I will pick something
heavy up again hit her on the side of
the head and strangled her on the floor
Rifkin kept her body in the basement for
two days the body had just begun to
change it looked like it was bloating so
I became afraid to cut it so I found a
mattress box or some kind of
narrow long box rectangle so I slit her
into that and dropped it in Hudson River
her body was found shortly afterwards
but never identified remaining a Jane
Doe until after his arrest Rifkin didn't
care they were objects you know I didn't
think of them as having anything else
but drug habits and you know sex for
money in my mind they never had family
has never had anything these killers
over and over again have an abnormal
need for power and control we all like a
certain level of power and control but
they have an abnormal need for why
because it was taken away in their
earlier years so now they're gonna react
and now they're going to try to
overcompensate for that self-employed
with no friends or social life Rifkin
was able to carry on with impunity his
family left him alone and didn't ask
questions
mom was I Hey long as he's not moping
long he's out doing something his family
pretty much were resigned to the fact
that the type of person he was a loner
it's kept to himself a lot up in his
room he would be out roaming at all
hours of the night that was a normal
course for him as far as a family was
concerned a few of the women actually
escaped his death grip unaware of his
fatal intentions one girl had she
managed to hook her foot around and lift
me up to the roof of the car
and
broke contact and I'm basically dangling
like a bug and I relaxed she relaxed and
she was like I gotta quit doing this and
of course you'd probably like me I gotta
quit the 1s and the next night she's
back out and I'm back out the first
three murders had occurred with long
intervals between them but his fourth
victim 22 year-old Mary Ellen DeLuca
happened just a few weeks later Rifkin
says he didn't even intend to kill her
we ended up in a hotel room my thinking
was two people walk into a hotel room
two people have to come out of a hotel
room so I was looking for ways to avoid
the killing in the room
DeLuca began to lament about her life
she was staying stories of how she just
come out of rehab and now she's getting
stoned again and her life is crap and
this has got to stop and I wish I was
dead and it was like she didn't have to
say much more after Rifkin grabbed her
throat we didn't have any sex nice to
heck with it I never even started the
sex act just strangled it now he had a
problem he had to get to Lucas body out
of the motel without anyone seeing the
curtains down and I disturb him on the
door and I went shopping for a trunk
like a kid takes to summer camp he got
the idea to use a trunk from the same
Alfred Hitchcock movie that gave him his
first sadistic fantasy that idea I
lifted from frenzy the idea worked
her body partially decomposed body was
found on that October 1st 1991 adjacent
to a rest area in route 32 in upstate
town of Cornwall New York
Rifkin was not only killing more
frequently he was getting better at it
but he wouldn't get away with it forever
as the body count grew Joel Rifkin began
taking bigger chances he murdered his
fifth victim 21 year old young lay in
his truck near the Williamsburg Bridge I
just grabbed it by the neck and didn't
let go that was a broad daylight Rifkin
prop yung Lee's body up in the passenger
seat and took the expressway back to
Long Island I had to get gas so I pulled
into self-service gas station they would
body in the front seat he drove to a
work lot where he stored gardening
equipment and put her body in the same
steamer trunk he had used to hide his
previous victim then Rifkin returned to
the city and dumped the trunk in the
Harlem River her partially decomposed
body was found in the body of water off
Randall's Island New York City just days
later he killed again victim number six
body has never been recovered he
strangled his female lug we had sandy
color the air he placed on the metal
drum and he placed his drum in the
Harlem River while disposing of this
still unidentified victim Rifkin was
nearly caught by two police officers I
rolled the barrel off splash turn around
and his a flashlight and it's to New
York City's finest what are you doing he
told the officers he'd been scavenging
for car parts the cops let him go that
was
take the thing you know Rifkin went on
to kill 11 more women his murders didn't
stand out in a city that was averaging
2,000 homicides a year the multitude of
cases homicide cases and victims in New
York see a jersey shark New York City
gets this is just an unfortunate thing
sometimes by the end of 1991 his third
year of killing Rifkin had murdered
seven women in the next year alone 1992
he killed eight more I'm not even
thinking about it anymore some of these
other girls he just didn't take anything
very almost automatic all of his victims
were strangled Joel Rifkin is a true
sexual sadist that thrilled that he gets
it gets intermingled and sex but again
keep in mind that tremendous feeling of
power and control he would have
strangling the defenseless prostitute by
discarding the bodies over a wide area
Rifkin kept police from connecting the
murders
nobody Rifkin knew suspected anything
either if he met Joel on the street he
would think that he was a Sunni guy I
don't think he'd kick take a second
glance at him then in late June 1993
Rifkin picked up his last victim Tiffany
bresciani while driving his mother's
Toyota he strangled her in the backseat
and drove home she's naked
through some car mats on her passing a
tour bus deciding it's not a good road
and I remember pulling off drove to
Kmart Rifkin bought a blue tarp to wrap
up Tiffany's body now it's around nine
o'clock in the morning drive home mom
has some shopping errands to run it's
her car so I'm dries off with basically
every odd-shaped package in a trunk and
I'm never used to trunk that morning
after his mother returned Rifkin moved
Tiffany's body to the garage where he
left it for three days very hot days and
now it's nice and ripe early in the
morning of June 28th Rifkin drove off to
dispose of Tiffany's body but his trucks
license plate wasn't properly attached I
heard it fall I miss lot from mechanic
there's tools everywhere so I thought
I'd left a wrench or a socket someplace
and it bounced off soon after Rifkin saw
flashing lights in his mirror knowing
the police would smell the stench from
Tiffany's body he decided to make a
break for it and drive into the ocean I
was looking for literally a place to
crash
I figured sink the truck swim hide under
the pier for a while I don't know what I
was thinking
instead Rifkin crashed into a light pole
after a 30-minute chase he offered no
resistance as trooper Shaun Ruane took
him into custody
he asked me he's like what why were you
stopping me anyway
at which point time I advised him that
the reason why we stopped him was
because there were no license plates on
the vehicle at which point in time he
responded you know it's always a 25-cent
part joel Rifkin's killing spree was
finally over the world was shocked when
it learned of his crimes after being
invisible for so long
Rifkin was now in the spotlight his
trial loomed ahead soon he would have to
face the families of the women he
murdered my don't having
you know hitting this off to die like
that I'm not building unlike his victims
Joel Rifkin would not have to fight for
his life at any of his trials New York
did not have the death penalty at the
time but faced with his own damning
confession Rifkin had few choices when
he went on trial for the murder of
Tiffany bresciani in 1994 on the advice
of his lawyers he pleaded not guilty by
reason of insanity the insanity defense
at that point loomed as the most viable
course to pursue if we were going to in
some way try to impress upon the jury
that Joel truly didn't appreciate the
consequences of his actions Rifkin's
attorneys fought to suppress his
confession arguing that it was coerced
Rifkin's insists he asked for a lawyer
several times during questioning I asked
for an attorney about 20 times but when
it comes to I guess a crime dis heinous
constitutional rights get forgotten
about it's not unusual after afterwards
for the defendants to make all sorts of
claims about what they asked for what
the police dator said to them his
confession was ruled admissible 10
months after Rifkin's arrest the trial
began the prosecution portrayed Rifkin
as a cunning killer who knew exactly
what he was doing and went to great
lengths to hide his crimes he was bright
enough to be able to pick the type of
victims that would not be noticed
missing right away to do it in to kill
these people in areas that would provide
him with seclusion and dispose of the
bodies in such a way that law
enforcement wouldn't be able to put one
together with another they also depicted
him as a sexual sadist he got sexual
pleasure not only in killing these young
women but in keeping items from them
their identification cards items of
their clothing some jewelry and reliving
that pleasurable experience of killing
them in this secrecy of his room by
holding and looking at all these items
that he had stolen from them as terrible
as it is what more power do you have
over someone than life and death from
the strangling the defense argued that
Rifkin was a paranoid schizophrenic
legally insane and incapable of
comprehending the consequences of his
actions
we were claiming that he was laboring
under such a pernicious disease that he
really wasn't appreciative of what he
was doing Tiffani bresciani 'he's mother
testified at the trial I knew I had to
take a stand I don't leave her for my
daughter but for all women in the world
the mothers of two other victims were
constant fixtures at the courthouse
demanding justice they wouldn't let me
board I'll kill him myself
Rifkin's mother was there as well
standing by her adopted son in spite of
his gruesome crimes I didn't know
unconditional love was until my arrest
in the courtroom Rifkin appeared
disinterested falling asleep several
times during the trial after two weeks
both sides made their closing arguments
the dead even though disposed of were
dates to Joel Rifkin his mind never drew
the connection between what was real
what was fancy what was life what was
death he knew when he killed Tiffany
bresciani that he was a serial killer he
knew it he was studying it he was
reading about it he had articles on
Jeffrey Dahmer and author Shawcross and
others in his room and he was doing it
to satisfy his own sexual perversions
the case went to the jury two hours
later the verdict was in that's the
count one murder in the second degree
what is your verdict guilty at
sentencing the judge gave Rifkin the
maximum you have been found to have
knowingly committed the most heinous act
one can commit against a fellow human
being
the taking of a life you Joel Rifkin are
hereby sentenced to an indeterminate
term of imprisonment with the minimum of
25 years in a maximum of your natural
life time I don't hate him I don't hate
anybody I just can't understand that I
still it's still a shock to me I don't
understand it over the next two years he
entered guilty pleas to eight more
murders in 1996 when he was sentenced
for the murder of iris Sanchez Rifkin
offered his first apology what I have
done can never be forgiven but I ask you
to believe me when I tell you but I will
never understand the part of me that
caused me to do these terrible things to
your children not only will I go to my
death reliving these horrors but I will
go there never knowing why you did them
at all
you all think plain nothing but a
monster and you are right part of me
must be the judge was unmoved mr. Rifkin
in case there is such a thing as
reincarnation I want to be sure that you
spend your second life in prison also in
all Joel Rifkin was sentenced to more
than 200 years in prison today he has
nothing but time to contemplate his
crimes I really didn't get a firm from a
grasp of what I did until around 9/11
people putting posters up looking for
loved ones and that made me realize yes
there are families and what the families
went through and it changed perspective
on a lot of it because many serial
killers were abused as children
psychiatrists looked there for the
source of Rifkin's violent impulses but
with such a normal childhood Rifkin
himself says he doesn't know why he
turned into such a monster they're
looking for the cigarette burns they're
looking for whether two broken bones and
it's she's not there and it's wanted up
the big mysteries for them and me I'm
not a hundred percent evil and I'm not
100 percent you know not it's a mix
unfortunately after taking
antidepressants prescribed by prison
doctors Rifkin says he now sees his
crimes in a different light now the
memories are the reverse of fantasies
now I wake up now it's like a kid waking
up from a nightmare they come and I wake
up and get something to read to distract
myself but Rifkin also says he can't
guarantee if he had the chance that he
wouldn't kill again the honest answer is
I don't know I don't know if I was
released if I'd ever kill again I might
on the next all new family plots poor
lady was so distraught when one loss
brings him down 12 all about this lady
stuff across the day one life could
cheer him up Chuck took his kitty to a
costume party I think we need a little
help against the ropes baby and all new
family plots Sunday 9 on A&E